# How To Get Really Good

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y20_9y4p-zs?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

Like all good things, you just have to spend time doing this. I hand
waved the hell out of most topics, so you probably should spend more
time getting a deeper understanding of what all these things are, but at
least you have the context now.

If you are going for your Comptia Network+, or just want a legit deep
dive into Networking, check out [Professor Messer's Net+
Training.](https://www.professormesser.com/network-plus/n10-007/n10-007-training-course/) 
It is extremely high quality, and you are now prepared to get everything
out of it.

My favorite resource to actually understand sockets is
<https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/>. This is critical stuff to understand how
the operating system interacts with the networking stack, and if you're
doing network programming, that is more important than whatever the
network is doing with your packets when you throw them out into the
ether.

I am a huge fan of the Cyber Plumber's Handbook:
<https://github.com/opsdisk/the_cyber_plumbers_handbook>

Self-described as the definitive guide to Secure Shell (SSH) tunneling,
port redirection, and bending traffic like a boss, this is the book that
teaches you to be good at fancy footwork. Also very relevant for
offensive security.

Finally, the real answer to this is to setup more networks, set up more
services, and mostly look at more pcaps. Whether it is just sitting
around capturing your local network, looking at malware c2, CTF
challenges, or some of these structured datasets, the more you get your
eyes on, the better prepared you'll be to know normal. 

-   <https://github.com/chrissanders/packets>
-   <https://www.netresec.com/?page=PcapFiles>

  

  
