# How to Tell if You are Hacked

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1lFkFZPcYKI?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

As we went over earlier, if a sufficiently advanced attacker wants to
get into your stuff specifically, they will.

But we have looked at our threat model before and have determined we are
probably not a person of interest to the FSB, right? Right???

So according to our threat model, the most likely people to hack us will
be random criminals who don't care who we are, they're just trying to
get in. While it is an oversimplification, "An ounce of prevention is
worth a pound of cure". If you are able to harden yourself ahead of time
and not be an easy target, you will be much less likely to get hit with
a non-targeted attack, and in the possibility that you ever are
targeted, you will be more likely to not get caught off guard.

These are some of the most common reasons you might get hacked.

# You are already hacked!!

The most common way to get malware on your computer is to already have
malware on your computer. Seriously, when I was first writing this
section, I ran a scan on the shared family computer I was using and
removed five separate PUPs and one piece of adware. Shared computers,
whether family, work, or libraries, are hot places for malware to be
sitting on, and if you log in to a owned computer, you might just lose
your passwords to a keylogger. So let's make sure you are not owned
already and then set ourselves up to be safe in the future.

## How Can You Tell

Remember the term indicators of compromise (IOC) from before?. There are
a ton that can be used, some approaches more technical than others.
Common non-technical indicators include constant pop ups, home page
redirection, search engine redirection, the classic pile of toolbars,
and the computer being slow and the fans working way too hard. Technical
indicators include extra processes running, network requests, and things
saved in places they shouldn't be. Looking for these technical
indicators is called "Threat Hunting". It deserves its own section, but
we will briefly go over a few ways you can identify the bad things on
your computer.

<a
href="https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2016/05/how-to-tell-if-youre-infected-with-malware/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">MalwareBytes: How To Tell If You're
Infected</a>
