# OPSEC and Compartmentalization

<iframe allowfullscreen height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yB77u2eaORk?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>  

Recommended Listening:Â 

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYb_8MM1tGQ" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYb_8MM1tGQ</a>

# OPSEC is king

If someone has found you in real life and they want to do bad things to
you, the game is over. There are all sorts of great technical approaches
to protecting yourself we have gone over already, but technology only
goes so far. There is always a log created digitally and if a motivated
attacker wants you, they will get you at some point. OPSEC is what keeps
you off the radar, and if you are going to be on the radar, gives them a
cold trail and a fake account to chase into the ground. If you follow
these rules, you will do much better towards not getting targeted.

Read This: <a href="http://blogsofwar.com/hacker-opsec-with-the-grugq/"
rel="noopener"
target="_blank">http://blogsofwar.com/hacker-opsec-with-the-grugq/</a>

## Compartmentalization

Compartmentalization is based around the idea that you have various
public facing personas, and you are unable to keep all of them private.
You will never manage to completely erase your public, legal name
persona from public record, and while you can attempt to keep it off the
internet, it's a losing battle. Taken to an extreme, if you have
separate personas for every website you use, with the appropriate
technical protections we already went over, you could have a distributed
profile that means that the discovery or unmasking of any specific
account having no effect on the others.

Like everything we are talking about in this course, it's all about risk
mitigation, at the cost of convenience. Keep working on the mentality of
this, understanding risks, their mitigations, and how it fits into
individual and group risk tolerances.

Think about the reasoning behind compartmentalization. You've already
determined your risk model, so compartmentalization only matters as much
as your risk model requires. Which of your accounts require
compartmentalization? If you followed the directions earlier in the
course, if you have a reset available for your password manager it is
controlled by a gmail account that you don't use on any other sites.

Read Grugq's Commandments: <a
href="https://grugq.tumblr.com/post/60463307186/rules-of-clandestine-operation"
rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://grugq.tumblr.com/post/60463307186/rules-of-clandestine-operation</a>

If you are taking this course, you likely do not require any advanced
tradecraft knowledge, but it's still useful to wrap your head around the
concepts. They are generally applicable to a lot of common scenarios,
and knowing them can only help.

-   Listen to the 10 Hack Commandments:
    <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sr8ILq1a_yw" rel="noopener"
    target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sr8ILq1a_yw</a>

It's by a guy called Dual Core, makes some pretty great stuff . His
number one song is 'Drink All the Booze, Hack All the Things'.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FoUWHfh733Y" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FoUWHfh733Y</a>

Let's put it this way, hackers don't take themselves all that seriously.
If you listen to the lyrics to 'Hack All the Things' you will probably
understand about one third of the references, at best. If you don't like
it or are too cool for nerdcore rap, that's fine. If you stick around
eventually you'll understand most of it and you'll go nuts when someone
throws it on during a late night hack sesh after you've been passing
around a bottle of whiskey.

Tasks:

1.  Do a quick thought exercise (ak don't submit it to me) about the web
    of accounts, online, and real world activities that could be tracked
    back to you if an omniscient cyber entity decided you were a person
    based on correlation of:

    -   Username and email reuse across sites
    -   Password reuse (yes, people have been arrested because their
        unique passwords were found in a data breach)
    -   Mobile phone use
    -   Laptop use

2.  Get me the GPS Coords for [this
    picture](https://github.com/ianare/exif-samples/blob/master/jpg/gps/DSCN0029.jpg):
    I recommend this site:
    <a href="http://exif.regex.info/exif.cgi" rel="noopener"
    target="_blank">http://exif.regex.info/exif.cgi</a>
